# Lil' Nordion Public Files
 Public build files for Lil' Nordion, the Fire Emblem 4 translation based on Project Naga.

This folder is a complete version of the [**Lil' Nordion**]() project files, which allows you to translate Fire Emblem Genealogy of the Holy War into different languages, or make mods without having to start from scratch.
While this may not be an "FE4 Builder", and the game's disassembly is still far from complete, I hope this will provide a useful base for your own creative endeavors.

-----------------
Setup
-----------------

- A recent version of [**python 3**](https://www.python.org/) must be installed and in your path.
  
- Go through the `tools` folders and install said tools wherever you see an `.url` file.
  64tass and SuperFamiconv are required downloads, and the others are all strongly recommended.
  64tass comes in a folder, so make sure to empty the contents of that folder you download into the `64tass` folder.
 
- A hex editor like [**HxD**](https://mh-nexus.de/en/hxd/) and a decent text editor like [**Sublime**](https://www.sublimetext.com/) or [**Notepad++**](https://notepad-plus-plus.org/) are also recommended.

- Patch a headerless copy of Fire Emblem Genealogy of the Holy War with the unheadered [**Project Naga patch**](https://forums.serenesforest.net/topic/63676-fe4-translation-patch-open-beta-v7/).

- Place the resulting rom in the root folder and name it `FE4.sfc`.
  At this time, Project Naga's edits have not been fully converted to 64tass's syntax, so this is but a temporary measure.
  Eventually, you will be able to build from a vanilla FE4 rom.

-----------------
Operation
-----------------

- The first time you try to build, then every time you edit any of the tables in the `tables` folder, launch the `tablebuilder.bat` before building.
  This will generate new, insertable `.csv.asm` files for the assembler.

- Click the `build.bat` file to generate a copy of the current developper version of Lil' Nordion.
  Mac/Linux users should instead use `build.sh`.

- If no ROM is generated, consult the command line prompt and the `log.txt` file for possible error messages.
  Do ignore the "Warning messages" in the log, as they do not prevent the build process and are generally unconsequential.

- `buildfile.asm` has all the includes, and is the root from which the `build.bat` reaches the rest of the folder.

----------------
Folder overview
----------------

`Dialogue` holds all the dialogue from Lil' Nordion. Dialogue text editing is accessible to most anyone, and you can find an informal tutorial in the documentation folders which helps with the work flow and the quirks of the system.

`Documentation` holds some documentation and ressources that might help with specific editing tasks. It is incomplete and very much a work-in-progress.

`Fixes` holds code for the various bugfixes that do not fit into any other folder. At the moment, it's just the fix for the Jealousy glitch.

`Graphics` holds a small portion of the game's graphics, including the intro reel, attract mode, genealogy wheel, world map, map movement sprites, and most of the textual interface.
Anything that requires translation is located there, including the dialogue font.

`LIB` is a library, required to build the tables, then the various ASM code and Events when those get included.

`MenuText` holds all the menu text from Lil' Nordion. Menu text in Project Naga is almost exclusively `.2bpp` files that can be opened in YYCHR.
Bitmap Font Writer should be a great help for these. Make sure tu adjust the tilemaps once you are done editing.
Also keep in mind that dialogue text and menu text are completely different systems and almost never interact with one another.

`Tables` will be of most interest for modders, and broadly replaces the function of Nightmare modules.
Units, classes, items, promotions, arena opponents... there is a little of everything. Editing these should be easy for almost anyone.
The unit and item data tables are separated into the `SPECIAL` folder.
`.asm` files are opened with a text editor, and `.csv` files with a spreadsheet.
`.casm` files are generated by the `tablebuilder.bat` in root, and should not be edited manually.

`Tools` holds all the tools (or at least links to them) needed to edit Fire Emblem 4.

----------------
Credits
----------------

Miacis: Repository's manager and Lil' Nordion help

LilinaGaming: Translation, extraction, editing and Lil' Nordion lead

Ultimage: Disassembly and then some

Zane Avernathy: C2a.py

[The Lil' Nordion and Project Naga teams]()